# Creating the git repository and docker image

[[[githubactions]]] are an automation tool integrated into GitHub that allows you to build, test, and deploy your code directly from your GitHub repository. It uses workflows defined in YAML files, enabling you to automate CI/CD pipelines, run scripts, and trigger actions based on events like code pushes, pull requests, or issue creation.
You can checkout the documentation here: <https://docs.github.com/en/actions> amd the marketpalce here: <https://github.com/marketplace?type=actions>

First things first , we need to initialize a new repository.

```bash
git init
```

Next we need to add a remote repository. replace the placeholder with your repository url.

```bash
git remote add origin https://github.com/username/repository.git
```

Before we can push our code to the remote repository, we will need to authenticate since we are using a virtual machine.

```bash
sudo apt install gh
```

Once its installed we can authenticate with github using the following command:

```bash
gh auth login
```

Follow the prompts to authenticate with which ever method you prefer. Once you are successfully authenticated you can push your code to the remote repository.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "your commit here"
git push --set-upstream origin master
```

Next we will setup our docker file image

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.23.0 AS builder

WORKDIR /app
COPY go.mod go.sum ./

RUN go mod download

COPY . .
RUN CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=linux go build -a -installsuffix cgo -o main .

FROM gcr.io/distroless/base-debian11 AS final
WORKDIR /app
COPY --from=builder /app/main .

EXPOSE 3000

CMD ["/app/main"]
```

Before we can start our github actions pipeline let's make sur our docker image is correct and runs as intended.
To do so , we will build and run our docker image and then test it.

Run the following commands in the terminal:

```bash
docker build -t simple-api .
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 simple-api
```

And we will test it the same way we did before. Head over to `http://127.0.0.1:3000/photos` and you should see a list of photos as json and some data about the api in your terminal too.

If everything is working correctly, you can stop the docker container by running the following command:

```bash
docker stop $(docker ps -q)
```

Now that we have our docker image working, we can start setting up our github actions pipeline.
Go ahead and finish this step.
